# S3

### S3 Use Cases

* Backup and storage.
* Disaster Recovery.
* Archive.
* Hybrid Cloud storage.
* Application hosting.
* Media hosting.
* Data lakes & big data analytics.
* Software delivery.
* Static websit.

### Amazon S3 - Buckets

* Amazon S3 allows people to store objects (files) in “buckets” (directories).
* Buckets must have a globally unique name (across all regions all accounts).
* :warning:Buckets are defined at the region level.
* S3 looks like a global service but buckets are created in a region.
* **Naming convention:**
  * No uppercase or underscore.
  * 3-63 characters long.
  * Not an IP.
  * Must start with lowercase letter or number.
  * Must NOT start with the prefix `xn--`.
  * Must NOT end with the suffix `-s3alias`.

### Amazon S3 - Objects

* Objects (\~files) have a **key**.
* The key is the FULL path:
  * `s3://my-bucket/my_file.txt`
  * `s3://my-bucket/my_folder1/another_folder/my_file.txt`
* The key is composed of prefix + **object** name:
  * `s3://my-bucket/`_`my_folder1/another_folder/`_**`my_file.txt`**
* There’s **no concept of “directories” within buckets** (although the UI will trick you to think otherwise).
  * Just keys with very long names that contain slashes (“/”) S3 Bucket.
* Object values are the content of the body:
  * Max. Object Size is 5TB (5000GB).
  * If uploading more than 5GB, must use “multi-part upload”.
* **Metadata** (list of text key / value pairs – system or user metadata).
* **Tags** (Unicode key / value pair – up to 10) – useful for security / lifecycle.
* **Version ID** (if versioning is enabled).

